Child's Play
=======

Interaction Fiction Mini-game
	The title of my mini-game is Child’s Play. Originally, the game was to be called Blanket. However, I thought that naming the game Blanket would motivate the player to immediately search for the blanket, which would take away from the story. The player plays as Alice White, a freshly graduated girl, who succeeds in getting her first job as a teacher’s assistant at Sunny Day Preschool. She is somewhat pessimistic, as seen in some of the descriptions, but is passionate about what she does and is enthusiastic about doing well on her first job in the ‘real world’. Sunny Day Preschool is a typical preschool, but the emphasis is placed on the faculty part of the school. There is a parent waiting room, an office, a faculty lounge, and a parking lot. There is only one classroom because that is the only classroom needed.
	There are two main puzzles in the game. The first puzzle is to find a blanket. This is done by following clues given by the NPC, George, the owner of the blanket. The player must go to the playground and examine each item described in the playground. If the player reads each description carefully, they should be able to obtain the blanket. I would consider this a very basic puzzle, as the player merely needs to follow simple instructions. The second puzzle requires a bit more logic, however I still provide major hints through dialogue in order to reduce difficulty. In this second puzzle, the player must wash the blanket because it is too dirty to return to George. The player must obtain quarters to unlock the washer-dryer machine. This is done by completing a sub-puzzle, which is instruction based. After obtaining the quarters, the player can wash the dirty blanket, and return it to George.
	There are 6 rooms in Child’s Play, as mentioned before. Again, there is the parking lot, parent’s waiting room, office, lounge, classroom, and playground. Of the six rooms, five of these rooms have items that are necessary for the completion of the game. The other room is merely a “guidance room”, where the player may obtain hints for the game. There are numerous items in the game. The most important, in no particular order, are: blanket/brown rag, quarters, ceramic pig, wallet, dollar bill, key, washer-dryer machine, and wheel.
	I think although it is longer, my game is relatively simple. From this game, I learned the importance of the ‘instead’ and ‘if’ rules. At the beginning of the game, I tried to code in a lot of literal things, such as “If player does [verb], then say ‘dialogue’.” This did not compile. And so I went onto several resources, including InformForStudent’s Wikispace, Jim Aikin’s Inform Handbook, and the source codes of other interactive fiction games to search for solutions. Through extensive skimming, I discovered the uses of ‘instead’. In my opinion, I feel most satisfied with the use of ‘instead’ in the quarter/washer-dryer puzzle, because not only did I use ‘instead’, but there were a number of actions that went along with it to make the game run smoothly (putting quarters into washer-dryer). Of course, this was with the assistance of Mr. Kiang, Mrs. Kiang, and the other sources I mentioned.
